#summary How to install Postgresql and the nurpawiki DB on Debian.

= Configuring Postgresql for Nurpawiki =
These installation instructions apply to both Debian and Ubuntu.  Package versions may change depending on your distribution.

== Install Postgresql and postgresql OCaml bindings ==
  * `apt-get install postgresql-8.2` (I've only tested with 8.x versions, so if the default is 7.4, something might not wrong)
  * `apt-get install postgresql-contrib` (for tsearch2, package name might also be postgresql-contrib-8.2) 
  * `apt-get install libpq-dev` (for OCaml bindings, remember to install bindings package `godi-postgresql` from GODI)

== Create DB & configure ==

When creating databases, you must ensure that the database will be in `en_US.UTF-8` locale, otherwise tsearch2 will not work.  If your locale is en_US (run `locale` to find out), the databases should be automatically correctly configured.

See [DatabaseInstallationHacks hacks] if you have reason to doubt this is not so.

=== Install DB and configure ===

 * Become postgres user by `su root; su postgres`
  * `createdb -E UTF-8 nurpawiki`
   * Note: if Postgresql doesn't let you do this and prompts for a password, you need to know `postgres` user's Unix password.  If you can, you can just change it with `passwd postgres`.  Doing this should enable Postgresql to give you local administrative access using the `postgres` user.
  * `psql nurpawiki < nurpawiki/schema.psql` (setup nurpawiki schema with tsearch2)

Make sure you choose the right Postgresql port when running `configure` for Nurpawiki.

==== 1) Setup postgres user authentication to the database ====
This is the preferred method on making the DB connection authenticate property.  If you're having problems, you can try the (2) option as well, but that's not recommended.

 * Become postgres user by `su root; su postgres`
 * Set postgres DB password for the nurpawiki database
  * Connect to DB: `psql nurpawiki`
  * `ALTER USER postgres PASSWORD 'barfoo';`
 * Try that your newly set password lets you into the DB:
  * _As user `janne`_ do: `psql -h localhost -W -U postgres nurpawiki` and type in the password you used above.  Note that the password for `postgres` Unix user and the DB password are not the same.

When running Nurpawiki's `configure` script, specify the same password you used in the above ALTER statement.

==== 2) Hack postgres configuration to allow DB access without a password ====

Edit `/etc/postgresql/8.2/main/pg_hba.conf` like so:

{{{
-host    all         all         127.0.0.1/32          md5
+host    all         all         127.0.0.1/32          trust
}}}