#summary How to install Nurpawiki

= Installation =

== Install Ocsigen & other required packages ==

Install Ocsigen through [http://godi.ocaml-programming.de/ the GODI package manager].

Follow [OcsigenInstallation these instructions] to install Nurpawiki on Debian / Ubuntu.  If you encounter any problems, please file them as bugs into the issue tracker.

The installation procedure has been tested to work on Debian testing and Ubuntu 7.x or above.  For Windows, I find it convenient to run Linux in vmware and use Linux for serving pages and Windows for browsing.

== Install Postgresql & create a database ==
See [DatabaseInstallationDebian Debian DB instructions] for instructions on installing using Debian's packages.  This should work for both Debian and Ubuntu.  The instructions should be easily adaptable for other distributions.

See [DatabaseInstallation DB from source] for installing everything from source (not recommended).

== Get the source ==
Download the latest release from the [http://code.google.com/p/nurpawiki/downloads/list downloads page].

You can also go for the latest and greatest by getting the soure from SVN
(see [http://code.google.com/p/nurpawiki/source]).

== Configure ==
Run configure like so:

{{{
# NOTE: This depends on the way you configured your
#       Postgresql.
# NOTE 2: Make sure the DBPORT is correctly set!  It needs to match your
#       Postgresql configuration variable (in pg_hba.conf)
# NOTE 3: See DB installation page for info on postgres user password & authentication
env DBNAME=nurpawiki DBUSER=postgres DBPORT=5432 DBPASSWD=<pass> ./configure > nurpawiki.conf.local
}}}

The script will complain if some of the dependent libraries are not installed via ocamlfind.

Pipe the output of `configure` to a file and pass it on to Ocsigen when you start the Ocsigen web server.

== Build Nurpawiki ==

Run `make`.

== Start server ==

Run 

{{{
ocsigen -c nurpawiki.conf.local
}}}

== Test it! ==

Point your browser to http://localhost:8080/view?p=WikiStart and login as "admin" (leave the password field empty).