#summary Installing Nurpawiki from GODI.

= Nurpawiki installation through GODI package manager =

Nurpawiki is packaged as a GODI package and can be easily installed via GODI.

== Install Nurpawiki using GODI ==

First install the following Debian packages:
 * `apt-get install libpcre3-dev`
 * `apt-get install libgdbm-dev`
 * `apt-get install libsqlite3-dev`
 * `apt-get install libpq-dev`

Then download [http://godi.ocaml-programming.de/ GODI bootstrap package] and follow GODI's installation instructions.

Run `godi_console` and select `apps-nurpawiki` package and install it.  GODI will automatically install all required dependencies.

== Configuration ==
The package does not automatically configure everything to work and thus you need to do a bit of twiddling before you can run Nurpawiki.

After installation you should have the following two files in `godi/share/nurpawiki`:

 * `example.conf` is a configuration file for Nurpawiki/Ocsigen that needs to match your platform.
 * `schema.psql` is a Postgresql script that you need to load into your `nurpawiki` database.  See database installation instructions on how to do that.

=== example.conf ===
 * Edit the `database` element's `password` attribute value to match your postgres user's database password.  Search for `insert_password_here`.

=== schema.psql ===
Load godi/share/nurpawiki/schema.psql into your database:

 * As user `postgres`, run:
  * `psql nurpawiki < godi/share/nurpawiki/schema.psql`

== Start Nurpawiki! ==

Provided everything installed the right way and you configured everything the right way, you can now start Nurpawiki:

 * `ocsigen -v -c godi/share/nurpawiki/example.conf`

=== Trouble shooting ===
 * No database found?  Need to install database.  See DatabaseInstallationDebian.
 * Cannot authenticate?  See above.
 * Can't find `var/log` or `var/run` directories?  You need to have them in whichever directory you choose to start nurpawiki/ocsigen from.  Creating:
  * `mkdir -p var/run`
  * `mkdir -p var/log`
  * Or you can edit `example.conf` to point these to an existing directory.