#summary Release notes
#labels Docs-ReviewedFor-1.1

= Release notes =

== Nurpawiki 1.2.0 (r395) ==
Modifies DB schema so a minor version upgrade is required.

 * Support for installing on Postgresql 8.3 (issue 51).
 * Set session timeouts to infinity so that users don't get logged out after a while of inactivity (issue 47).
 * Schema improvements and documentation changes to allow easy installation on both Postgresql 8.2 (tsearch2 separately installed) and Postgresql 8.3 (built-in tsearch2).
 * Furthermore, extend the schema to make migrating Nurpawiki installation from Postgresql 8.2 to Postgresql 8.3 easy (see [Transition_from_Psql_8_2_to_8_3])

== Nurpawiki 1.1.2 (r358) ==
 * Split /history view into multiple pages to make viewing recent changes snappier.
 * Give the user ability to configure his preferred homepage (thanks Stephane Glondu!).
 * Performance optimizations in /history view.
 * Added a Selenium IDE based functional test suite.

== Nurpawiki 1.1.1 (r330) ==
 * Read-only access that lets in non-logged in users who are allowed to view the site content but not to modify it (issue 33)
 * Highlight a moved task in the to-do list if it's been moved up or down in priorities (issue 8)
 * Connection pooling (although restricted to only one concurreent connection)
 * Attempt to re-try database connections if the database server has been restarted while Nurpawiki has been running.
 * Less database queries during page loads with many to-dos
 * Login screen problems in issue 40 will be automatically fixed by Ocsigen 0.9.5 (release to be expected in Jan 2008).
 * A few smaller bugfixes & code improvements.

== Nurpawiki 1.1.0 (r282) ==
 * *Warning* Take a database backup before upgrading -- this release alters your DB schema.  Once upgraded, you can't go back to the previous version.
 * Reason for minor version upgrade: database schema changes.
 * Implement wiki page revision history:
  * Users can now view old versions of wiki pages
 * Several database schema improvements:
  * Set current DB locale on upgrade (enables users to migrate an existing Nurpawiki DB to a Postgresql installation on a different locale)
  * Start seq's from 1 (old schema.psql shouldn't have set their start values at all)
 * Link to nurpawiki main page after a database upgrade

== Nurpawiki 1.0.2 (r239) == 
 * Implement "undo complete task" that allows users to undo if they accidentally closed a task.
 * Check/uncheck button for (de)selecting all tasks for editing in scheduler.
 * Created a GODI package.  A few changes went into configuration scripts to enable this.
 * Rename `configure` to `gen_ocsigen_config`.
 * Rename `site.cma` to `nurpawiki.cma` (Requires you to update your Ocsigen config).
 * Strip down JSCalendar to make Nurpawiki release package smaller (113KB from 380KB).
 * Work arounds for IE compatibility

== Nurpawiki 1.0.1 (r177) ==
 * Automatically create !WikiStart and !WikiMarkup wiki pages on DB init so that the user is taken to a simple help screen after first install.
 * Implement bold, italic and code styles in wiki markup.
 * Fix a bug in bullet list whitespace handling.

== Nurpawiki 1.0.0 ==
 * First ever public release.